I will begin by writing out a for loop.
That is perfectly fine syntactically, but then I'm going to show you a better way to write the same
for loop.
Okay, so let's write.
Let's create some numbers equals numpy dot linspace.
Let's go from minus five to plus 5 in 7 digits.
So this is just some numbers just an array for us to work with okay.
So let's say we want to print out these numbers in a for loop.
We can do something like this I in range length of some numbers.
And then what do we want to do.
I'm going to print out index.
And then string I plus has a value plus string.
String some numbers I like this okay.
So here's what we do for I in And then we want a range iterator variable.
But how long does this need to be.
Well I'm just setting it to be whatever is the length of this variable here and here I define that to
be seven.
Okay.
And then I'm printing out the index number and the value of the array at that index.
Very nice.
So I hope everything in here is understandable to you.
What I'm going to do now is use a a new iterator type that I haven't yet introduced you to called enumerate.
So for I comma n in enumerate some numbers.
Okay.
So notice a couple of similarities and differences.
We still have the for the in and the iterator and we still have the colon.
So at some basic syntactic level it looks similar to setting up this for loop.
But there is two key differences one This function, this reserved keyword function enumerate which
comes from to number something.
And then here I have two variables instead of just one variable okay.
And now I can write print index.
And now I'm also going to set this up slightly differently.
So instead of using plus signs I'm going to just use commas I.
Has value n okay.
So here you can see we get exactly the same output.
In both cases this is a little bit more condensed.
Partly it's more condensed because I just set up the string printing differently from here.
But that's not the important part.
The important part is that this variable n is actually the value of each element in this list over here
or in this numpy array here.
So I hope that makes sense.
So enumerate provides two variables that we can use in a for loop.
The first variable is an index and the second variable is the value in each of the elements in at that
index.
Okay.
So now instead of writing out some numbers and then index I, I can simply write out n over here.
I hope you agree that this is more convenient and more compact okay.
So this is with numbers.
Now I want to show you an example using letters.
So let's write a text and I'm going to write.
Hello my name is Mike.
Imagine me yelling this in a crowd okay.
So now what I want to do is just find all of the vowels in this text.
So I'm going to write for I comma l in enumerate text.
And let me just first print out I and l.
So you see what this looks like.
So here we have all of the indices.
In the first column it goes zero through 20.
Because there happened to be 21 elements in this text.
We can also confirm this here the length of text is 21, and then L is the value of this variable at
each of the indices corresponding to I.
So then you see.
Hello.
This is a space here.
My name is Mike.
Okay.
Very nice.
So how can we tell if we have a vowel in here.
Well we can do something like this.
So for l in actually, I haven't yet introduced this kind of syntax.
Let's say uh eh in uh, e like this.
So what Python is doing with this syntax is asking or searching for whether the value of this variable
here is anywhere inside of of this string here.
So is a inside this string.
And the answer is no.
So we get an output of false.
And we can just add an A in here.
And now we get an answer of true.
We can do this also with a number.
So for in let's say A12, three, five.
Here the answer is false.
And now I can change this to be three.
And here the answer is true.
Okay.
So with that in mind I'm going to say if l in a e I o u then.
So if this is true, if this letter is in this vowel then I'm just going to print out l like this.
Okay.
So here we see a e.
So this is hello my name is.
But then I don't see any I or E in here.
Right.
Because this is capital and these are not capital.
So how can we fix this.
How can we also get this to recognize that we want capital letters as well as lowercase letters.
One way you could do this obviously would just be to repeat like this.
So then we have capitals and lowercase letters.
But we can also use a method on a string called lower.
So let me introduce you to this.
So here I have a Qwerty and then yeah this is just a Qwerty.
And then if I right lower then we get the lowercase version of these letters.
Okay.
So this means we are ignoring the capitalization because every character here, every value of L is
going to be lowercase.
Okay.
So then we can print this again and we get the capital letters coming out here.
The last thing I want to do in this video is create a numeric vector that is zeros for non vowels and
ones whenever we have a vowel in this text.
So I'll call this variable vowels and I will initialize it to be zeros of the length of text.
Okay.
And now I'm going to replace this print command with vowels I equals one okay.
And this is basically why I wanted to use enumerate.
If you didn't need the index then it would be better.
Let me do show this.
So if we didn't need the index, then it would actually be better just to remove this altogether.
And then we can have print l like this.
Okay.
So this accomplishes the same goal.
The main reason why I wanted to use enumerate in this for this example is because I want to create this
numpy array here, which is all zeros where there's no vowels and ones where there are vowels.
Okay.
So then we can just print this out like this.
So now we have an array of numbers that is the same size as the text.
And it has a value of zero.
Wherever we don't have a vowel and a value of one wherever we do have a vowel and it doesn't matter
if it's uppercase or lowercase.
Very nice.
So that is your introduction to enumerate.
We are going to continue using enumerate in the next video when I also introduce you to the zip function.